In the previous video, we have done configuring BGP on google and ISP.
Next in this video, we are going to learn about the concept of
network address translation.
But before that, let’s remember about private
and public ip address first.
Public ip address is in the internet and accessible
from anywhere, but private ip address is only
accessible from the local network.
In this topology, let’s say the Ip address
of google server, the network between google
and ISP, and the network between ISP and customer
is public ip address.
And then the ip address of vlan 10 and vlan
20 is private ip address.
The problem is, private ip address will not
able to go to the internet, so for example
here from vlan 10 want to ping to google,
so the source address is 192.168.10.2,
let's say this is the ip address of pc 0, and then
the destination will be the google,
which is 172.16.10.2.
When pc 0 send this packet, the packet will
go through router 3, and then forwarded to ISP.
ISP will see the packet, here ISP will see
that the source address of the packet is 192.168.10.2,
ISP don’t know about this network, because
this is private ip address,
so the packet will not forwarded to the internet or google.
So for now, the client will not able to communicate
with internet or google.
So the solution is, we will configure nat
in the customer router.
The function of nat is to translate the network
address, in this case nat will translate the
source address.
So if the source is 192.168.10.2, after nat
process in router 3, the source address will
become the public ip address of customer router,
which is 10.20.20.2
After that, the packet will forwarded to the
ISP, ISP will see the packet,
now the source address is public ip address, and ISP know
about this ip address, so the packet will
be forwarded to the internet.
Okay so that is the concept of network address
translation, I hope you understand.
I think enough for this video, in the next
video, we are going to configure nat
so all client will able to communicate with internet
or google.
Thank you for watching and see you on the
next video .